*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 65326 ***

                                _BAKER’S
                            Coconut Recipes_


                            _Copyright, 1922
                        The Franklin Baker Co._

    [Illustration: Baker’s Coconut]




                             About Coconut


Do you know that coconut is a wholesome body-building food?

Down in the tropics where the coconuts grow, the sturdy natives use the
pure, white meat of this delicious nut as their principle food.

Pound for pound it is far more nourishing than beef and other standard
foods. According to government reports, one pound of dried coconut
equals two and one-half pounds of beef.

Of course, to get the full food value of coconut, you must get it fresh
and ripe and juicy. That is why BAKER’S CANNED COCONUT is the finest on
the market today.

Fresh, carefully selected coconuts are shipped right to the BAKER
factory—here they are opened, grated and sealed in airtight cans. All
the work is done in BAKER’S bright, spotless, sunshiny factory, where
everything is as clean as in the cleanest home kitchen.

No artificial preservative is used in Baker’s Canned Coconut.

The BLUE can contains Baker’s fresh, ripe coconut, canned in its own
milk. Much of this milk is absorbed by the coconut so that it is
particularly soft and juicy. _When you use the coconut that comes in the
Blue can, be very sure to carefully press out all the moisture before
adding the coconut to your cakes and pies, otherwise, you will have more
moisture than your recipe calls for._ This milk can be pressed out in
accordance with directions on the can or you can put the coconut in your
potato ricer or fruit press and squeeze the milk out. This coconut milk
can be used in place of, or mixed with, cow’s milk in your baking and
adds to the delightful flavor of your cakes and pies and candies.

The YELLOW can contains fresh, naturally moist coconut without the milk,
sweetened with pure cane sugar.

There are just two ways to get really fresh, ripe coconut. One is to
know how to select a coconut, then open it and pare it and grate it—the
other way is to simply open a new BAKER can. You get all of the
flavor—none of the work.

The following recipes are practical and very easily made. They have all
been tested in the BAKER COCONUT KITCHEN.




               If the Blue can is used, be sure to press
                 the milk out as directed on the label.




                           Coconut Charlotte


  1 cup BAKER’S Coconut
  ½ envelope plain gelatine
  1¼ cups milk
  2 egg yolks
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  ½ pint whipped cream
  3 tablespoons sugar

Soak gelatine in ¼ cup of milk. Scald cows’ milk, add sugar and beaten
egg yolks. Cook several minutes and add gelatine, coconut and vanilla.
When beginning to set, add whipped cream. Heap lightly in sherbet cups
and sprinkle with coconut. Serves five persons.




                        Porto Rico Coconut Rice


  1 Blue Label can BAKER’S Coconut
  1 qt. boiling water
  1 teaspoon salt
  1 cup rice
  1 cup raisins
  3 tablespoons sugar

Empty contents of Blue Label can Coconut into 3-quart kettle, pour over
it boiling water, add rice and boil gently. When half cooked, stir in
raisins and sugar. Serve hot with plain or whipped cream or with
cinnamon sauce.




                             Cinnamon Sauce


  ½ cup butter
  1 cup powdered sugar
  2 tablespoons boiling water
  ¼ teaspoon cinnamon extract

Beat the butter in a bowl till creamy, then add half of the sugar and
water; beat well, and add the remainder of the sugar and water. When
light and fluffy add the flavoring, and set aside in a cool place till
wanted.




                         Coconut Daffodil Cake


    [Illustration: Coconut Cakes]

  1st Part
  ½ cup butter
  1 cup sugar
  3 egg yolks
  2 cups pastry flour
  3 level teaspoons baking powder
  Scant cup milk
  1 teaspoon vanilla

Cream butter and sugar, beat in the egg yolks, add flour with baking
powder sifted in it, alternating with milk, add vanilla. Bake in two
buttered layer cake tins.

  2nd Part
  ½ cup butter
  1 cup sugar
  2 cups pastry flour
  scant cup milk
  1 teaspoon almond extract
  3 egg whites
  3 level teaspoons baking powder

Cream butter and sugar, add flour with baking powder sifted in it,
alternating with milk, add almond, fold in the stiffly beaten whites of
eggs. Bake in two buttered layer cake tins.

When the four layers are baked and cool, put first a yellow, then a
white, then a yellow, then a white, spreading white coconut icing
between each layer and over all the top and sides. Either of the above
recipes may be used as a separate cake.




                          Coconut Butter Cake


  1 egg well beaten
  2 squares melted chocolate
  ½ cup milk

Cook these ingredients in a saucepan until smooth and thick. When cool
add:

  1 cup sugar
  1½ cups flour after it is sifted
  1 teaspoon soda, dissolved in milk
  ½ cup milk
  1 tablespoon melted butter

Bake in two layers in a moderate oven.




                         Coconut Butter Filling


  1 can BAKER’S Coconut
  ½ cup butter
  1¾ cups confectioners’ sugar
  ¼ cup coconut milk (or cream)

Beat butter to a cream, gradually beat in sugar, thinning occasionally
with milk. When light, stir in coconut. Spread between the layers and on
the top.




                         Porto Rico Coconut Ice


  1 Blue Label can Coconut
  ½ lb. sugar
  2 egg whites
  1 pint boiling water
  4 sticks cinnamon
  juice of 1 orange and 1 lemon (or 2 limes)

Pour boiling water over contents of one can Blue Label Coconut and
cinnamon. Add fruit juices and sugar. When cool, remove stick cinnamon,
add well-beaten egg whites and freeze. This will make one quart.




                                Hermits


  1 can BAKER’S Coconut
  1 cup butter (scant)
  1½ cups sugar
  3 eggs
  1 cup chopped raisins
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  3 cups flour
  ½ teaspoon soda
  ¼ cup hot water
  1 teaspoon cinnamon
  1 teaspoon cloves
  ½ teaspoon ginger

Cream butter and sugar, add beaten eggs. Sift in flour, add spices,
raisins, and the soda dissolved in warm water. Mix in the coconut which
has been toasted. Drop from teaspoon on a buttered pan, an inch apart.
Bake in a moderately hot oven about twenty-five minutes.




                         Washington Coconut Pie


  ½ cup butter
  1 cup sugar
  2 eggs
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  ½ cup milk (or coconut milk)
  2 cups flour (pastry)
  2 teaspoons baking powder

Cream butter and sugar until light. Add well-beaten eggs and vanilla,
then the milk and the sifted flour to which the baking powder has been
added. Beat well and pour into well-buttered and flour-sprinkled layer
cake pans and bake for twenty minutes in a moderately hot oven. Put
cream filling between layers.




                    Cream Filling for Washington Pie


  1 can BAKER’S Coconut
  ¾ cup milk (or coconut milk)
  4 tablespoons sugar
  2 eggs
  2 tablespoons flour
  1 tablespoon vanilla
  1 tablespoon butter

Put milk on to scald. Mix flour with a little cold milk to form a smooth
paste. Gradually stir this into the scalded milk. Cream butter and
sugar, add well-beaten eggs and stir this into the first mixture. Cook
until smooth and thick, add coconut and flavoring. Put between layers.
Ice with chocolate icing. Serve while fresh.




                          Coconut Devils Food


  1 cup BAKER’S Coconut
  1 cup sugar
  ⅓ cup butter
  2 eggs
  ¾ cup milk (or coconut milk)
  1½ cups flour
  2½ teaspoons baking powder
  3 tablespoons cocoa
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  ½ teaspoon salt

Cream butter and sugar. Add well-beaten egg yolks. Add coconut and
vanilla. Mix all well. Add flour, in which baking powder, salt and cocoa
has been sifted, and milk, alternately,—then last fold in stiffly beaten
whites of eggs. Turn into well-buttered and floured layer cake pans, or
loaf cake pan. Ice with coconut butter icing.




                          Coconut Custard Pie


  1 cup milk
  2 eggs
  ½ cup sugar
  1 can BAKER’S Coconut

Add coconut, sugar and well beaten eggs to the milk. Place in pie crust
that has been brushed with butter and bake for thirty minutes.

    [Illustration: Coconut Candies (See page 10)
    Coconut Devil’s Food (See page 5)]

    [Illustration: Coconut Fruit Cup and Macaroons (See page 8)
    Washington Coconut Pie (See page 5)]




                           Coconut Fruit Cup


  2 oranges
  2 bananas
  ½ cup powdered sugar
  1 cup BAKER’S Coconut

(Any seasonable fruit desired can be added.)

Cut oranges in half—remove orange without breaking the skin. Scallop top
of orange cup. In this, place fruit mixture which is made as follows:

Cut oranges and bananas in small pieces. Thoroughly mix in half cup of
sugar and most of the coconut. After the cups are filled, sprinkle the
top liberally with coconut and place a cherry on top.

This makes a delightful dessert and is particularly pleasing for
children’s parties.




                           Coconut Macaroons


  1 cup BAKER’S Coconut
  3 egg whites
  2 tablespoons flour
  1 cup sugar

Beat the eggs until stiff, add sugar and flour. Put mixture in double
boiler and stir constantly—do not allow mixture to adhere to sides of
boiler. Cook for about twelve minutes. Remove from fire, add coconut,
mix well. When cool enough to handle form into small cakes half-inch
thick. Place on a well-greased pan. Bake in a slow oven until a light
brown.




                         Coconut Frozen Custard


  1 can BAKER’S Coconut
  4 cups milk
  4 eggs
  ½ cup raisins
  1 cup sugar
  2 tablespoons cornstarch
  1 tablespoon vanilla
  ½ cup each chopped cherries and pineapple

Cook three cups of milk in a double boiler. Moisten the cornstarch with
a little milk, add it to the hot milk—stir until it thickens. Beat eggs
and sugar until creamy, then add to the thickened milk. Stir and cook
for a few minutes. Remove from fire, add the coconut, fruit, balance of
milk and vanilla. When cold, freeze as for ice cream. If the coconut
with the milk is used, take one cup of coconut milk and three of milk.




                              Bohemian Pie


  1 apple
  ½ cup sugar
  ½ cup raisins
  1 can BAKER’S Coconut
  1 tablespoon cinnamon

Line a square pan with good pie dough—let it extend up on sides about an
inch. Make a layer of apple, sliced thin. Sprinkle sugar and cinnamon
over the apple. Sprinkle raisins over this, then the coconut. Cover with
dough without any opening. Fold edge of lower crust over upper crust and
pinch together. Wet well with cream, sprinkle with granulated sugar and
bake slowly about an hour.




                            Coconut Jumbles


  1 can BAKER’S Coconut
  1½ cups granulated sugar
  ¾ cup butter
  3 eggs
  4 cups flour
  4 level teaspoons baking powder
  ½ level teaspoon salt

Cream sugar, shortening and salt together; add well-beaten eggs and one
cup of coconut. Sift three cups of flour with the baking powder and add
to mixture. Dust bake board with flour, roll out quite thin, to ⅛ inch.
Cut out with cruller cutter. Brush top with a little well-beaten egg and
sprinkle with coconut. Bake in hot oven ten to twelve minutes.




                           Coconut Gem Cakes


  1 can BAKER’S Coconut
  ½ cup sugar
  ⅓ cup butter
  2 eggs
  1 cup flour
  1 teaspoon baking powder
  ½ cup milk
  1 teaspoon vanilla

Cream butter and sugar, add well-beaten eggs, vanilla extract. Sift
baking powder and flour and add to mixture, alternately with milk and
coconut, mix well, turn into well-buttered and flour-sprinkled gem pans.
Bake for twenty minutes in a moderately hot oven. Spread over top,
chocolate icing to which some toasted coconut has been added.

A lemon icing with toasted coconut is also good with these small cakes.




                          Coconut Candy Kisses


  1 cup BAKER’S Coconut
  2 cups sugar
  1 teaspoon butter
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  1 cup milk (or coconut milk)

Mix sugar and milk until dissolved. Place on slow fire. Boil without
stirring until it forms a soft ball when dropped in cold water. Remove
from stove, add butter, coconut and vanilla. Stand aside until cool,
then beat vigorously. Drop from teaspoon on a buttered platter.




                        Coconut Chocolate Fudge


  1 can BAKER’S Blue Label Coconut
  2 squares chocolate
  1 cup of cream, condensed milk, or milk (to make 1⅔ cups when added to
              coconut milk)
  1 teaspoon of vanilla
  3 cups sugar
  Butter size of walnut

Boil sugar, chocolate and milk (stirring constantly) until a small
quantity, when dropped in cold water, forms a firm mass. Stand aside
until bottom of pan is absolutely cold, then add the vanilla and butter.
Beat until creamy, adding the coconut (from which all the coconut milk
has been thoroughly pressed). Continue beating until thick, turn into a
buttered pan and cut into squares.




                         Coconut Divinity Candy


  1 can BAKER’S Coconut
  2 cups granulated sugar
  2 egg whites
  1 cup Karo Corn Syrup (white)
  1 cup coconut milk
  1 teaspoon vanilla

Boil sugar, syrup and water until it spins a thread. Remove one cup of
this syrup and stand aside. Boil remaining syrup until it cracks in ice
water. To the stiffly beaten egg whites slowly add the first cup of
syrup—then the remaining syrup—beating constantly. Flavor with one
teaspoon vanilla and when beating becomes difficult add the coconut from
which all milk has been thoroughly pressed. When the mass can no longer
be stirred, form in a loaf—turn out on oiled paper and stand aside until
cold.




                            Coconut Clusters


A wholesome and delicious candy can be made by:

Melting 1½ cups granulated sugar in a skillet. When melted, add a piece
of butter the size of a walnut and quickly pour over one cup of coconut
which has been evenly spread on a buttered dish.

    [Illustration: Coconut cream pie]




                      Coconut Cream Pie (Meringue)


  1 cup BAKER’S Coconut
  ¾ cup granulated sugar
  1½ cups milk (or coconut milk)
  2 level tablespoons cornstarch
  2 eggs
  Pinch of salt

Add beaten egg yolks and cornstarch to milk, place over slow fire and
stir until thick. Remove from fire and add about two-thirds of the
coconut. Pour into a baked crust and cover with stiffly beaten egg
whites to which two or three tablespoons of powdered or granulated sugar
have been added. Sprinkle coconut on top and brown quickly in oven.




                              Coconut Cake


  ⅓ cup butter
  2 eggs
  1¾ cups flour after it is sifted
  ¼ teaspoon of salt
  1 cup sugar
  ½ cup milk
  2½ teaspoons baking powder
  1 teaspoon vanilla

Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs, one at a time, and beat until
light. Sift the flour, salt and baking powder and stir into the mixture,
alternating with the milk. Add the vanilla.

Bake in two layers in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Ice with
coconut icing.




                                 Pastry


  1 cup flour
  2 tablespoons shortening
  3 tablespoons cold water
  ¼ teaspoon salt

Sift Pastry flour and salt. Cut in shortening. When thoroughly mixed,
add water. Always roll pastry one way. Handle as little as possible.




                          Coconut Boiled Icing


Boil without stirring, one cup of sugar, one-third cup of coconut milk
or water, one-fourth teaspoon of cream of tartar. When it threads from
spoon, pour onto well-beaten white of an egg. Flavor, beat until thick,
add coconut and spread quickly.




                      Coconut Marshmallow Frosting


  ⅔ cup BAKER’S Coconut
  2 cups sugar
  ½ cup water
  1 cup marshmallow whip or ¼ lb. chopped marshmallows
  2 egg whites

Boil the sugar and water until it threads. Pour this mixture steadily
but slowly onto the egg whites which have been beaten until stiff and
dry. Add the marshmallow whip, or chopped marshmallows, and beat until
thick enough to spread. Use one-third of this frosting to make a thick
filling between the layers of cake and use the remainder to frost the
top and sides. Sprinkle thickly with the grated coconut as soon as the
cake is frosted.




                          Confectioners’ Icing


  1 BLUE can BAKER’S Coconut.

Mix ¼ cup coconut milk with Confectioners’ sugar to right consistency
(about one and two-third cups) add coconut; after cake is iced, sprinkle
coconut on top.

    [Illustration: BAKER’S COCONUT]

                                BAKER’S
                              FRESH GRATED
                                COCONUT
                          IN PURE COCONUT MILK

                                BAKER’S
                           MOIST    SWEETENED
                                COCONUT




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.

—Bake time/temperature was omitted from the print version of Coconut
  Devils Food Cake recipe. No conjectural emendation was attempted.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 65326 ***
